# AntsVersusBees
This game was coded as part of a project for the CISC181 (Introduction to Computer Science II) course at the University of Delaware.

In this game, the ants are placed on the board by you and they either harvest food for the colony of ants, or they protect the queen ants by attacking bees. The bees leave their hive and enter the playing board, where they advance, stinging ants as they move toward the queens. The board is a matrix (start with a 5x5 matrix). The game ends when either all the bees have left the hive and there are no more bees on the board (in which case the ants won!) or when all the queens have been stung (the ants lose) or when the ant colony runs out of food and there are no ants on the board(again, the ants have lost).
Each turn the bees leave the hive in amounts of 1-5 bees (a random number between 1 and 5 including 5). The hive is placed in a raondom square in the right-most column of the colony matrix. Bees can leave either side of the hive (going up one square or down one square) when they leave the hive’s square, unless, of course, the hive is in the 0th square of the last column, in which case bees can only exit down one square, or if the hive is at the bottom square in the last column, in which case bees can only exit up one square. More than one bee can be in a square. Note that when bees leave the hive, they don’t move forward, they just move up or down a square.
Each turn every bee that’s on the board either advances to a square into the next left column (e.g. if the bee is in column 3, it will attempt to advance to column 2). It can either move diagonally up a square, straight ahead, or diagonally down ahead, assuming the bee isn’t already in row 0 or in the last row of the colony matrix. If there is an ant in the square the bee was going to move to, the bee stings the ant, and the ant loses armor (1 armor point) (Aside: if the ant is a ThrowerAnt, it will equally attack the bee and, based on the Ant’s damage field, the bee will lose armor points equal to the ant’s damage. If the bee’s armor is decreased to 0, the bee is removed from the colony matrix.) If there is more than one bee in a square, it moves forward independently of the other bees in the square.
Each turn the user places ants on the board. Unlike the bees, there can only be one ant per square. The ants don’t move. They just either add food or attack bees. So far you have two kinds of ants: the Thrower Ant and the Harvester Ant. Harvester Ants cost one point to put on the board, but every turn they remain on the board, they add 1 food point to the colony’s food supply. Harvester ants also have very weak armor – they only have 1 armor point, so if a bee attacks, they die and should be removed from the board. The thrower ants cost 2 food points to put on the board. They have slightly stronger armor – their armor is 2. And when they attack, they inflict a damage of 2 on the bee they are attacking (the bee that was trying to move into their square).
Finally, the queen ants are located to the leftmost side of the colony – I made a separate array for my queens, that is the same length as the colony matrix’s number of rows. Queens are weak – when they are stung, they die immediately, and they never attack. They just sit around all day being queenly. Why the rest of the ants are so interested in defending the queens, I don’t know. But they are. You don’t
want all your queens to be stung. So, for instance, if you have a bee in row 3 column 0, and in its next turn it wants to move to row 2 column -1, the queen at index 2 would be killed (and that bee leaves the board).
